In the next two videos, I discussed the map interface elements in a map implement the type Javadoc
Utah dot map toward entry and have a key and a value is set to be mapped to a key.
A map cannot contain duplicate keys.
Now valid key for a hash map.
Only each cake a map to most what value and null is a valid value.
There's a map interface doesn't extend collection, but why not?
All these questions answered by the following Tecmo, the links in the resources section.
The answer is that this was by design.
Mappings are not collections and collections are not mappings.
Thus, it makes little sense for MAP to extend the collection interface or vice versa.
Let's talk about data manipulation methods before travel, right, this interface was pretty basic with
operations such as put get remove, contains key, contains value, size and empty as far as bulk operations,
such as put all a clear and collection views such as key entry set and values.
Default methods were added in Java right to the interface for the following data manipulation methods
of removed return types and generic top parameters in a table on screen from the method declarations
just to simplify readability.
The compute merge and replace all methods can be used with lambda expressions that had all of these
methods have a function parameter with the exception of compute if absent.
This is important for the exam, which may test your knowledge on which functional interface is used
by which method.
So in all cases, but one the function is used.
Your lambda expression would have two parameters representing key and value.
The one exception should be easy to remember because it's the instance where the key is known not to
exist.
Computed absent its parameter is a function excepting one parameter representing the values to be calculated
for the new entry.
So look at the various methods and say we've got compute that attempts to compute a mapping for the
specified key in its current, that value or not.
There's no current mapping.
They've were completely absent if the specified case not already associated with a value, what's map
to know that attempts to keep it, especially using the given mapping function and it has it into the
map.
Now.
Moving on, comparative PR. If the value for the specify case present and now it attempts to complete
a new mapping given the key and its current mapped value, we've got Mirch.
It's a specified case not already associated with a value or is associated with no debt associated with
a given value.
Put it absent.
It's a specific case not already associated with a valley or boys map to now associate it with a given
value and returns.
Now those returns, the current value more here remove removes the entry for the specified key only
if it's currently mapped to the specified value.
Replace replace the entry for the specified key and if it's currently mapped to some value, replace
overloaded at this time replaces the entry for the specified key and if it's currently mapped to the
specified value and replace replaceable replaces each entries value with the result of invoking the
given function on that entry until all entries have been processed or the function throws an exception.
Java nine and 10 introduce static methods for this interface, which include the following.
We've got a copy of Introduced in Java 10, which returns and modifiable map containing the entries
of a given map, an entry method introduced in Java, nine returns and unverifiable map to an entry
containing the given keen value.
We've got various forms of of the of method introduced in Java nine terms that are modifiable map containing
zero to many mappings based on the arguments of this method.
We've got other entries also introduced in Java nine, which returns are not modifiable map botanicas
and Veliz extracted from the given entries.
Some implementations of map contained in the collections framework, a hash map tray map and linked
Hashmat a quick outline of the three that you can see, the Hashmat not ordered and allows an OK and
also allows a value tray map.
The ordering is a natural order of chaos or by a copyright are passed to the constructor.
It does not allow no case, but it does allow no and linked Hashmat.
The ordering is for a predictable insertion order uses the order of insertion of case and that allows
no key and also no values.
All right, so time to swing back over to the idea, going to create a new project in a new class in
our collections project called Call This One, that example.
But so this class as a main method, you can see there, it's creating three types of maps, Hashmat,
the TriMet and the linked Hashmat.
It's populating them with the same key value elements is in the put method in a follow and you can see
the follow up online that five is in.
This is going to be further testing, adding an element with a case plus an element with a value to
see what happens then we're actually just printing out the results.
And here.
Basically printing out the printing out the map and its elements around this now.
Looking at the code there, you can see firstly that only the tree map, through an exception point
of exception, we tried to add an entry with a NOCH or three, allowed an entry with a low value.
Looking at the map, you can see there that it's not sorted, but looking at the tree map and the linked
hash map to see both of those are sorted.
And in addition to each entry is an entire class of each map type.
You can see that in the output there, each entry type implements mapped on entry.
We're going to add a method now.
To this class on the bottom.
So there's a method to simple map stuff.
This method invokes many of the common functions of a map.
You see we've got closer to get.
Contains key spots, contains value, also multiple flavors of replace being used there.
You can see we're overloading it with different values.
So we've got to replace with two arguments.
But the first is the key and the second is Savelli, which will be the value of the entry of the keys
found.
But I've also got to replace that with three arguments.
The first is the key to match and the second is the value to be matched.
And if the entry matches on key and value, the value will be replaced with a value in the third argument
living on death row.
So I also got multiple examples here.
Of the removed method, we've got removed there with a single argument which made an entry with a matching
key to the argument we've got to remove with two arguments, which removes an entry matching the key
of the first argument and the value on the second argument.
And the entry won't be removed.
The second argument doesn't match.
It's going down.
We've also got a use of put it up, set and put there as he comparing the results, both return the
current value of the entry.
If the entries fared with a key matching the first argument of the method put always updates to match
entries value positive.
Abbasid will update the matched entries value if the value is no and put it upside will ensure entry
with the first argument is key and the second argument is value with the entries not found.
Well, it's now that we've done that, let's add some code to our made method so that we can test this
new function.
And we can see the output on screen there now.
Let's close that run, Payden, and we're going to go down to the bottom of our class at another Bethania.
There's a new method.
I'm using lambda expressions here, which you should basically be familiar with now to refer to the
one zero eight nine Part one, cause if you need more info.
But when we review reviewing lambda expressions in more detail in this course as well later on.
Now you can use a lambrix pressure to alter a value with a map using compute.
You say we're using a computer that you can alternatively use compute if absent and computed prisoners.
We've got examples of that in this code.
Well, let's go back to our main method.
Need to post them, Sicard, so that we can test this method.
Is that his code that's now run this?
All right, so there's the airport.
The output confirms, firstly, that using compute and we just get back to the source code to check
that out as well.
You were using computer to update the value, the key of John and multiply the value by a hundred and
thirty eight is that lambda expression?
Because can we're getting the right result?
You see, John, on the output page on the value of 500.
Another example here is in compute with a new value.
Harlene, in this case, that doesn't exist.
We could say that's been added to the map.
Eight equals zero and it's taken the default value because the value was no other example there of setting
John to know value subsequently saved us.
No, and then updated it, this expression to zero.
Again, you can say that in the upper pane, maybe go to the compute if absent method calls and computed
present.
We're getting the relevant results in the output pane as well.
Basically, competitive and competitive, absent of good alternatives to the compute method, competitive,
absolute does nothing.
If a key exists, the operation is not executed and repeated presence does nothing.
If the key does not exist, the operation is not executed in that scenario.
So let's see the video here and the next one will start looking at merge.
See you in the next video.